oh my God look behind us there's the big
Tusker the big Tusker is right behind us
oh my god just South Africa is home to
some of the strongest animals on the
planet
species that not only have remarkable
power but strength enough to be a match
for any predator within their own
environments all animals across the
world have strengths whether it be brute
force or specialists within a species
but when it comes to sheer power from
the great to the small the animals in
South Africa are amongst the strongest
in the world the African elephant the
largest living land mammal on the planet
fully grown males weigh in around seven
tons and when dealing in brute force
they are the strongest animals alive
with over a hundred thousand different
muscles in their trunks alone
they are undeniably a spectacular power
on the African plains they use their
tusks as tools to strip bark a dig for
food and water but also as weapons as
they battle with rivals young bulls form
bachelor groups sparring to assess each
other's strengths but breeding is all
down to weight size and power and when a
large bull is in must they command the
herd so hey we've got the large dominant
male right here and up there they're all
young bulls and they don't seem to be
kicking off because he's come into the
area when a ball is in mass their
testosterone levels saw 60 times greater
than normal as they prepare to compete
for females and will do whatever it
takes to sire the next generation
coughs are born completely dependent on
their mother's drinking up to 12 litres
of her milk each day other herd members
will care for the young with elephant
family bonds being one of the strongest
in nature and this young female will
stay with her family group for the rest
of her life
now both male and female African
elephants have tusks but this is all
starting to change and increasingly
they're being born without them and
that's all to do with the pressures from
poaching that's because animals with
large tusks are always targeted and
therefore they're not passing on the big
tusks gene to the next generation so
much so that tusks size has half in the
last century in some areas of South
Africa ninety-eight percent of female
elephant populations and now tuskless a
direct result from human impact but as
elephants evolved to combat poaching
let's hope this may help protect the
species however here in South Africa
it's not only the large species that
have incredible power it is also the
small now dung beetles are fantastic
creatures and vital for the ecosystem as
they break up the dung of much larger
animals and disperse the nutrients all
over the plains
there are over 7,000 species of dung
beetle found across the world of which
around 800 live in South Africa and they
play a remarkable role in the savannas
by burying themselves in dung they
improve soil quality and are key in seed
dispersal they have an excellent sense
of smell which they used to sniff out
their next meal but they also use dung
to bury themselves in the heat of the
day as well as a safe place to lay their
eggs they may look like an average
beetle but when it comes to strength
there is no other match despite being
roughly a couple of inches in length on
average
dung beetles can roll balls of dung 50
times their own weight with one species
being able to pull a dung ball 1141
times its own body weight that's the
equivalent of a human pulling six
double-decker buses full of people and
that not only makes the dung be of the
strongest insect in the world but
compared to body size the strongest
animal on the planet which just goes to
show size isn't everything
but when it comes to strength in
survival sometimes it can be down to an
individual South Africa is home to
nearly 80% of the world's rhinos that's
by far the largest rhino population
anywhere in the world but it's also the
country that's been hit the hardest by
poachers in South Africa alone over the
house and rhinos were killed each year
between 2013 and 2017 making the country
incredibly important for rhino
conservation in 2012 the Korea Game
Reserve suffered a brutal poaching
attack one Rhino died that night
another male died 24 days later but one
female survived
Tandi became the first Rhino ever to
survive a poaching attack her story
spread around the world and she has
become an icon of hope in the fight
against poachers poaching can happen
even if you have a massively good anti
poaching unit it can still happen
I don't think poaching of rhinos will
ever stop until the last Rhino is gone
the value of rhino horn is more than
gold which is ridiculous rhino horn is
literally keratinous same as your nails
and you hear but tandy is definitely
inspired so many and still is inspiring
so many with her massive success story
shortly after the horrific attack she
was found to be pregnant
an unbelievable feat given her recent
trauma she has now gone on to have three
calves a miracle in itself
her survival was nothing short of
extraordinary
and has helped rhino conservation all
over the world vets in Korea staff were
able to perform pioneering skin grafts
as she grew from strength to strength
so Tandy's new carve his name is newt at
all which means justice and he is not
even a month old yet he is adorable and
naughty and feisty little cough it's a
huge success because usually if you hear
about perch honors it's always negative
it never ends well it never ends well
but if tandy she's changing that story
if it goes on like it is now there's
gonna be no rhinos left in a few years
and we can't go and show up kids like
this is a wild Rhino because there will
be none left and we would be the ones
responsible for that because you know
did we do enough so last year was the
first year in over a decade
that South Africa witnessed a small
decline in the poaching of rhinos this
shows that stringent efforts be made by
anti poaching units is working however
there is still much work to be done but
for now Tandi and her calf have found
sanctuary thanks to the corrida Game
Reserve
[Music]
here in the Eastern Cape we've witnessed
some remarkable wildlife some
spectacular behaviors and had a
privileged insight into conservation
efforts happening on the ground it is an
area rich in biodiversity let's hope it
stays that way
South Africa is home to undeniably some
of the most magnificent species in the
world but like all living things across
the planet they are surviving in a
delicate balance
however fragile environment is under a
monumental threat one never seen before
in the history of the human race and it
is our responsibility to protect it the
actions we now make towards saving the
environment have never been more crucial
before we lose what only life on earth
depends on
[Music]
[Applause]